# Breast-cancer-prediction
Predict breast cancer using anthropometric data and parameters gathered from routine blood analysis

Breast cancer screening is an important strategy to allow for early detection and ensure a greater probability of having a good outcome in treatment. The research goal of this project was to utilize a publicly available dataset to identify and validate a generic blood screening tests for early breast cancer detection in the general population. In this project, assessment was made on how models based on the input variables that are collected during routine blood analysis may be used to predict the presence of breast cancer. Furthermore, the applicability of the predictive model to larger and more heterogeneous populations can be subsequently assessed. Since this is a bi-class classification problem, supervised learning algorithms that classify observations based on a set of input variables were used to assess the suitability of the algorithm for predicting breast cancer in the given dataset.

The dataset used for this project was obtained from the UCI machine learning dataset (Breast Cancer Coimbra Data Set). The data was made available publically by a research group at the Faculty of Medicine, Coimbra, Portugal ("Using Resistin, glucose, age and BMI to predict the presence of breast cancer" Patrício et al., BMC Cancer, 2018). The original study proposed a model for breast cancer detection based on biomarkers. Clinical, demographic and anthropometric data were collected for a total of 64 women with breast cancer and 52 healthy volunteers. The putative biomarkers assessed as part of the study were Glucose, Resistin, Age, Body Mass Index (BMI), Homeostasis Model Assessment (HOMA), Leptin, Insulin, Adiponectin, Monocyte Chemoattractant Protein 1 (MCP-1). Leptin, Insulin, Adiponectin and Resistin are important hormone proteins that are involved in the regulation of inflammation, glucose metabolism and/or insulin resistance. MCP-1 is a protein, a cytokine, and an important mediator of inflammation. HOMA is a method used to quantify insulin resistance.
